CPSC 1620 - Assignment 2
(due Thr Feb 6, 23:55)


INSTRUCTIONS:

This assignment contains three problems. Please submit your source code
as follows:
- for Problem 1, write your code in a file named a2even.cc
- for Problem 2, write your code in a file named a2leap.cc
- for Problem 3, write your code in a file named a2cities.cc
Use the instructions from the course lab page to prepare and submit
your files using moodle.

For full marks, please comment your source code by following this
guideline: 

A) comment your entire program by placing a comment block at the top
of your file. Please specify in the comment block the following
information: 
  a1) Your name
  a2) A brief description of program functionality. For example you
	may write for Problem 2 the following sentence: "This program reads
	a one digit integer and displays its four least significant bits".

B) if you have variables, provide comments where you specify the
purpose for the variables. 


----------------------------------------------------------------------

PROBLEM 1: 

Suppose we are given two positive integers, x and y, with 0 < x <
y. Write a program that prompts the user to enter the integers x and
y, and then outputs the number of even integers between x and y
including x and y. For example, if x and y are 2 and 4 respectively,
then there are 2 even integers between 2 and 4 including 2 and 4. If x
and y are 1 and 8 respectively, then there are 4 even integers between
1 and 8.

Please design your program so that the prompts and messages are
displayed as in the following example. You may assume that x and y
are entered so that x < y.

Hint: it is not too difficult to determine the number of even integers
between 0 and some integer z. Use this knowledge to answer the
assignment question.

Example:
Please enter two integers: 2 9
The number of even integers between 2 and 9 is 4



PROBLEM 2: 

A year is considered a leap year if:

 a) it is divisible by 4 but not by 100 (examples of leap years: 96,
 104, 2016; examples of years that are not leap: 100, 300) 
OR IF 
 b) it is divisible by 400 (examples: 400, 800, 2000)

Therefore, years 1100, 300, 2100 are not leap years because they are
divisible by 100 and are not divisible by 400. Year 2000 is a leap
year because, although it is divisible by 100, it is also divisible
by 400. 

Write a program that prompts the user to enter two years x and y with x
< y and that outputs the number of leap years between x and y including x
and y. 

Please design your program so that the prompts and messages are
displayed as in the following example. You may assume that x and y
are entered so that x < y.

Hint: extend the code you wrote for Problem 1.

Example:
Please enter two years: 1997 2004
The number of leap years between 1997 and 2004 is 2



PROBLEM 3: 

A road in the shape of a circle is given. On this road, n cities
labeled from 0 to n-1 in clockwise order along the road are uniformly
distributed. This means that the road distance between any two
adjacent cities is equal. The cities are approximated as points, and
the circular road is the only road connecting the cities.

Given a source city s and a target city t, determine how many cities
need to be visited on the shortest path from s to t. The source and
target cities are included in the count.

Write a program that prompts the user to enter a value for n, s, and t
and that displays the number of cities visited on the shortest path
from s to t. 

Please design your program so that the prompts and messages are
displayed as in the following example. You may assume that the user
enters acceptable values for n, s, and t.

Example:
Please enter the number of cities: 6
Please enter a source and a destination: 4 0
The number of cities visited is 3

Hint: determine the number of cities visited along the clockwise
direction and the counter-clockwise direction. Then, use an "if"
statement to output the smaller value of the two. If statements are
covered in Tuesday's lecture, Feb 4.